Caribbean Investment Summit in St Kitts-Nevis: 35 years of CBI				
By
Caribbean News Now contributor



BASSETERRE,
St Kitts – St Kitts and Nevis hosting of the Caribbean Investment Summit
coincides with the 35th anniversary of its pioneering Citizenship by Investment
Programme (CBI); is also where several major CBI projects dot the landscape
either abandoned or incomplete.



It
seems more evident than not, that the Embassy Suites international hotel brand
appearing on a resort on the coastline remains unfinished. The Radisson, the
Six Senses and Ritz-Carlton brands have also eluded the Team Unity government
of prime minister Dr Timothy Harris, and thus, gives reason to examine economic
citizenship investments.



The 4th annual summit will open today, June 19th, 2019, includes a two-day programme held under the theme 35 years of CBI: The Caribbean Advantage, is expected to draw some 400 attendees comprising government officials, heads of Citizenship by Investment (CBI) Units, developers, as well as international marketing agents and service providers from around the world, including China, India, the Middle East, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States of America.



Prime
Minister of St Kitts and Nevis Dr Timothy Harris is expected to highlight a
forward-looking presentation titled: A focus on regional leadership and vision:
35 years of Caribbean CIP, looking back, the sustainable path forward.



Last
month, Dr Harris announced that St Kitts CBI program has an optimistic outlook
in terms of performance. “Last year was the best” adding, “The real estate
applications received is at record high levels. St Kitts and Nevis is exploring
new innovative ideas transformation strengthening the CBI scheme. The
government will continue enhancing the due diligence checks and will continue
to cooperate with governments in US, Europe and Canada and have an excellent
relationship with this program. “The program is doing very well”, Dr Harris
said.



Looking
back at last year’s summit, Harris said, “A lot has changed since 1984 when our
citizenship by investment programme (CIP) began as an ambitious start-up
venture.”  He noted, “the little engine
that could” holds the distinction of creating the niche market of economic
citizenship and carving out a pathway for the growth and development of small,
resource-constrained countries.



Speaking
at the St Kitts Marriott Resort, Harris said last year, “As to be expected,
competition has surged along with interest in citizenship by investment programmes
– so much so that, within the past several years, Antigua and Barbuda (2013),
Grenada (2013; re-launched in 2016) and Saint Lucia (2015) entered the CIP
market, and Dominica reshaped its CIP in 2014 after having launched it two
decades earlier in 1993.  Cyprus (2011;
restructured in 2013) and Malta (2014) also introduced their own CIPs several
years ago. As I speak, other countries are considering getting into the
lucrative CIP market.”



Member
of Parliament Marcaella Liburd has accused Harris of gross incompetence, noting
in 2017, that after over two years in office, the Team Unity government has not
attracted one foreign direct investment to St Kitts and Nevis.