Six Senses Papagayo to open in 2021				




SAN
JOSE, Costa Rica — Six Senses Hotels Resorts Spas brings its sustainable and
ultra-luxury footprint to Central America as it teams up with The Canyon Group
to announce the development of Six Senses Papagayo. The resort, which is
expected to open in mid-2021, offers a new adventure for those seeking love of
life and health in a private, eco-conscious and away from it all destination.



The breath taking 2,300-acre (930-hectare) Papagayo Peninsula consistently ranks as one of the most beautiful mixed-use luxury developments in the world. With 15 miles (24 kilometres) of pristine coastline and exotic beaches, the peninsula features discreetly sprinkled hotels and residences. Perhaps the greatest attribute of Papagayo is that even when fully developed, 70 percent of the land mass will be preserved as nature intended.



Six
Senses Papagayo, when completed, will be unique on the peninsula. The site
stretches from the highest point and 360-degree panorama of the Guanacaste
archipelago to a forested beachfront dotted with 41 secluded and generously
sized pool villas. There are also 31 one-of-a-kind residences available for
sale to owners interested in an exciting investment opportunity along with full
access to a unique resort-life experience.



The
highlight of the resort will be Six Senses wellness programming, along with a
beautiful spa and fitness centre and endless activities and inactivity. There
will be an organic farm located in the heart of the property, including fruit,
vegetable and herb gardens inspiring the chef’s menus and signature spa
treatments. There is also an emphasis on community and celebration, whether
that means a knees-up during a holiday on the beach or a lazy day spent with
loved ones.



Six
Senses Papagayo is owned and under development by The Canyon Group based in
Larkspur, California. The Canyon Group either acquires or develops boutique,
ultra-luxury resorts in unique destinations. Among the group’s core portfolio
are the famed Amangiri resort in Utah and Amangani resort in Wyoming. The Canyon
Group has teamed up with the Garnier Group, one of Costa Rica’s best known and
most reputable development companies to develop the resort.



Six
Senses and The Canyon Group are delighted to announce the selection of John
Heah, award-winning, London-based architect. He is world-renowned for his sense
of theatre and the ability to artfully harmonize design with nature in the
style of Carlo Scarpa, Ed Tuttle and Frank Lloyd Wright, all of whom have
deeply influenced his work.



Among
some of the most renowned projects, Heah’s impressive portfolio includes Four
Seasons Resort Bali at Sayan and Amanera in the Dominican Republic.



Commonly
referred to as the Switzerland of Latin America, Costa Rica is a mecca for
travellers looking for stop-and-think experiences that are meaningful and
memorable. It boasts miles of beaches, some of the most extensive rainforests
in the world and majestic mountains and volcanoes, lakes and meandering
topography.



Approximately
27 percent of the country is conserved territory but what is most impressive
about Costa Rica is that although the tiny country covers 0.025 percent of the
globe’s surface, it shelters 6 percent of the world’s existing biodiversity.



Six
Senses Papagayo is located 40 minutes from Liberia International Airport, which
offers daily flights to and from just about every major metropolitan hub in the
United States, as well as Canada and Latin American countries.