World Health Organization issues new guidelines on early childhood development				




GENEVA,
Switzerland — Children under five must spend less time sitting watching
screens, or restrained in prams and seats, get better quality sleep and have
more time for active play if they are to grow up healthy, according to new
guidelines issued by the World Health Organization (WHO).



“Achieving health for all means doing what is best for health right from the beginning of people’s lives,” says WHO director-general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “Early childhood is a period of rapid development and a time when family lifestyle patterns can be adapted to boost health gains.”



A
WHO panel of experts developed the new guidelines on physical activity,
sedentary behaviour and sleep for children under five years of age. They
assessed the effects on young children of inadequate sleep and time spent
sitting watching screens or restrained in chairs and prams. They also reviewed
the evidence around the benefits of increased activity levels.



“Improving
physical activity, reducing sedentary time and ensuring quality sleep in young
children will improve their physical, mental health and well-being, and help
prevent childhood obesity and associated diseases later in life,” says Dr Fiona
Bull, programme manager for surveillance and population-based prevention of
noncommunicable diseases, at WHO.



Failure
to meet current physical activity recommendations is responsible for more than
5 million deaths globally each year across all age groups. Currently, over 23
percent of adults and 80 percent of adolescents are not sufficiently physically
active. If a healthy physical activity, sedentary behaviour and sleep habits
are established early in life, this helps shape habits through childhood,
adolescence and into adulthood.



“What
we really need to do is bring back play for children,” says Dr Juana Willumsen,
WHO focal point for childhood obesity and physical activity. “This is about
making the shift from sedentary time to playtime while protecting sleep. “



The
pattern of overall 24-hour activity is key: replacing prolonged restrained or
sedentary screen time with more active play, while making sure young children
get enough good-quality sleep. Quality sedentary time spent in interactive
non-screen-based activities with a caregiver, such as reading, storytelling,
singing and puzzles, is very important for child development.



The
commission recognised the important interactions between physical activity,
sedentary behaviour and adequate sleep time and their impact on physical and
mental health and well-being on ending childhood obesity, which called for
clear guidance on physical activity, sedentary behaviour and sleep in young
children.



Applying
the recommendations in these guidelines during the first five years of life
will contribute to children’s motor and cognitive development and lifelong
health.







Recommendations
at a glance:



Infants
(less than one year) should:



 Be physically active several times a day in a variety of ways, particularly through interactive floor-based play; more is better. For those not yet mobile, this includes at least 30 minutes in prone position (tummy time) spread throughout the day while awake. 



Not be restrained for more than one hour at
a time (e.g. prams/strollers, highchairs, or strapped on a caregiver’s back).
Screen time is not recommended. When sedentary, engaging in reading and
storytelling with a caregiver is encouraged.



Have 14–17h (0–3 months of age) or 12–16h
(4–11 months of age) of good quality sleep, including naps.



Children
one – two years of age should:



Spend at least 180 minutes in a variety of
types of physical activities at any intensity, including moderate to vigorous
intensity physical activity, spread throughout the day; more is better.



Not be restrained for more than one hour at
a time (e.g. prams/strollers, highchairs, or strapped on a caregiver’s back) or
sit for extended periods. For one-year old’s, sedentary screen time (such as
watching TV or videos, playing computer games) is not recommended. For those
aged two years, sedentary screen time should be no more than one hour; less is
better. When sedentary, engaging in reading and storytelling with a caregiver
is encouraged.



Have 11-14 hours of good quality sleep,
including naps, with regular sleep and wake-up times.



Children
three – four years of age should:



Spend at least 180 minutes in a variety of types of physical activities at any intensity, of which at least 60 minutes is moderate to vigorous intensity physical activity, spread throughout the day; more is better.



Not be restrained for more than one hour at
a time (e.g. prams/strollers) or sit for extended periods. Sedentary screen
time should be no more than one hour; less is better. When sedentary, engaging
in reading and storytelling with a caregiver is encouraged.



Have 10–13 hours of good quality sleep,
which may include a nap, with regular sleep and wake-up times.