Antigua – Barbuda and the Dominican Republic forge closer relations: Embassy to break ground soon				
ST
JOHNS, Antigua – Prime Minister Gaston Browne fulfilled a promise made three
years ago to the president of the Dominican Republic to transfer one acre of
land for the construction of an embassy and residences for the Dominican
Republic in St John’s, presented the land certificate to foreign affairs
minister of the Dominican Republic, Chancellor Miguel Vargas who paid an
official visit to Antigua and Barbuda over the weekend.



“The establishment of an embassy in St John’s signals the permanency and strength of our relationship.  Three years of engagement has heightened our relationship which has a long history dating back to the 1920’s when Antiguans and Barbudans travelled to the Dominican Republic to cut cane and some stayed and established families.  So, we are inextricably linked,” prime minister Browne told the Dominican foreign minister.



He
also outlined that over the last few years, over ten thousand Dominicans have
made Antigua and Barbuda their home, contributing to the diversity of the
Antigua and Barbuda population. He stated that it is important for both
countries to continue to collaborate in each other’s interest and continue to
expand cooperation in the international community. He said that over the years,
the friendship has been one of mutual beneficial cooperation and his government
wishes to continue to build on the relations and values the Dominican Republic
as a reliable partner.



Prime
Minister Browne also noted that in the area of trade, there are several under
and unexploited opportunities.  “I wish
for us to collaborate in order for Dominican enterprises to establish
operations in our free trade zone, thereby providing markets for them in the
wider Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) region,” he said.



The
country’s leader also commended the Dominican official on the high level of its
tourism product and outlined that there are opportunities for
collaboration.  He also commended the
Dominican government for their demonstration of friendship in the offer of the
construction of a new school in Barbuda.



Foreign
Minister Vargas in his response to Prime Minister Browne, outlined that the establishment
of an Embassy in Antigua and Barbuda is a signal of how much his government
respects the friendship and are willing to continue the high level of
cooperation.  “This embassy will be a
symbol of our friendship,” he said. 



During
the meeting, Foreign Minister of Antigua and Barbuda E.P. Chet Greene and
foreign minister Vargas signed an Air Services Agreement and a Disaster Risk
Management Cooperation Agreement; important to disaster mitigation and improved
air services between both countries.



Prime
Minister Browne and foreign minister Vargas pledged to continue discussions in
the areas of trade, education, housing and aviation to include services to be
provided by LIAT.