Eliminating hepatitis calls for ‘bold political leadership’ says UN				
GENEVA, Switzerland – A new study by World Health Organisation (WHO), published on Friday in Lancet Global Health, found that investing $6 billion per year in eliminating hepatitis in 67 low – and middle-income countries would avert 4.5 million premature deaths by 2030 and more than 26 million deaths beyond that target date.   



A total of $58.7 billion is needed to eliminate viral hepatitis as a public health threat in these 67 countries by 2030. This means reducing new hepatitis infections by 90 percent and deaths by 65 percent. 



“Today
80 percent of people living with hepatitis can’t get the services they need to
prevent, test for and treat the disease,” said WHO Director-General Dr Tedros
Adhanom Ghebreyesus.  



“On
World Hepatitis Day, we’re calling for bold political leadership, with
investments to match. We call on all countries to integrate services for
hepatitis into benefit packages as part of their journey towards universal
health coverage,” said the top UN health official.   



By
investing in diagnostic tests and medicines for treating hepatitis B and C now,
countries can save lives and reduce costs related to the long-term care of
cirrhosis and liver cancer that result from untreated hepatitis. 



According
to WHO, some countries are already taking action. The government of India, for
example, has announced that it will offer free testing and treatment for both
hepatitis B and C, as part of its universal health coverage plan. This has been
facilitated through the reduction in the prices of medicines. In India, a
hepatitis C cure costs less than $40 and a year of hepatitis B treatment costs
less than $30. At these prices, hepatitis C cure will result in healthcare cost
savings within three years. 



The
government of Pakistan has also been able to procure hepatitis C curative
treatment at similarly low prices. Providing curative treatment to all those
currently diagnosed with hepatitis C could also reduce healthcare costs in
Pakistan within three years. Meanwhile, Pakistan is faced with one of the highest
new annual infection rates of hepatitis C virus and is launching a new
infection control and injection safety plan on the occasion of World Hepatitis
Day to stop transmission. 







World
Hepatitis Day 



WHO’s
global hepatitis strategy, endorsed by all WHO member states, aims to reduce
new hepatitis infections by 90 percent and deaths by 65 percent between 2016
and 2030. 



On
the 2019 edition of World Hepatitis Day, the Day is marked on 29 July, WHO is
calling on all countries to “invest in eliminating hepatitis” through costing,
budgeting and financing of elimination services within their universal health
coverage plans.  



While there has been broad support among WHO member states in adopting the WHO hepatitis elimination strategy, with 124 out of 194 countries developing hepatitis plans, over 40 percent of country plans lack dedicated budget lines to support elimination efforts.  There are five types of viral hepatitis infections – A, B, C, D and E. Over 95 percent of deaths are caused by chronic hepatitis B and C infections, while hepatitis A and E rarely cause life-threatening illnesses. Hepatitis D is an additional infection occurring in people living with hepatitis B.