Dominica and Cyprus’ common denominator				
Cyprus
is taking the leap to further improve the lives of its citizens. The country
has officially embarked in using its Citizenship by Investment Programme to
build affordable, quality, climate resistant homes following the footsteps of
the Dominica Housing Revolution.



Cyprus’
Interior Minister Constantinos Petrides stated in an interview last May 20 that
– “The new, well thought out policies that will be implemented by the Interior
Ministry and the Labour Ministry, as well as the land development organization
and the home financing organization, constitute a comprehensive approach that
will yield immediate results for targeted groups of the population but also
gradually resolve the structural problems in the housing market.”



The new scheme aims to provide inexpensive housing to the people in Cyprus as determined by the European Commission. Petrides said it is based on the needs of youth and of low-income families. 



With
the provision of the homes, the Cypriot government also envisions to achieve
the goal of Dominica Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit to be a climate resistant
nation.



Dominica’s
26-year old Citizen by Investment Programme has emerged as the world’s most
efficient and transparent choice for economic citizenship.



Prime
Minister Skerrit made the bold move to make good use of the CBI programme to
entirely fund the Housing Revolution of 9 big projects after the catastrophic
events experienced by the nation. 



The
Government of Dominica has commissioned Montreal Management Consultants Est.
for building hurricane-resilient houses to cater to the needs of Dominican
residents.



To
date, 91 families from Petite Savanne have received their new homes in the resettlement
project at Bellevue Chopin. More homes are set to be turned over later this
year as Montreal Management Consultants Est. (MMCE) continuously builds fully
integrated housing communities across the island.



Christopher
Timmins, Project Manager of MMCE, said apart from homes, provisions to make
every resettlement project self-sustainable are also being established.

“It has always been intended that we will work
with the government to create a large self-sufficient mountain-top community
still retaining its rural essence but at the same time, providing the
facilities of a town with access of high-speed internet, shops, providing all
the requisites for daily living from the plaza, offices for utility companies
and other service providers whether it be a doctor or lawyer offices,” Timmins
said.